ABBY (VOICEOVER):
Previously on "Dance Moms"--
We have a new member of the team.
Asia will be joining
the Abby Lee Dance Company.
I do not think there is enough
competition among you.
CHRISTI: Well, doesn't it make you
nervous at all
that last week Abby really
didn't want Kenzie to do the group,
and then this week she brings in someone
that's her age and gives her a solo?
The top Energy Junior Small Group
is entry 124-A,
"Machine Lines."
[cheering and applause]
ABBY: Do you think I've given up my whole
life to deal with that piece of crap?
No!
She is dirt under my feet!
ABBY (VOICEOVER):
Coming up on "Dance Moms"--
We're doing a patriotic number.
This is about the politics--
CHRISTI: Of dance.
- --of dance.
ABBY: Politics is life.
It is about who you know.
CHRISTI: Maddie and Chloe are competing
against each other at this competition.
ABBY: Now you realize
you're up against Chloe.
I mean, Asia comes in from out of town--
what do I do with Asia--
right when Mackenzie is injured.
She doesn't want to
let Asia take her spot.
Kendall, you're chasing her!
The kid is a brat!
There are brats in there,
and Kendall's not one of them!
HOLLY: I don't care what you
say or what you don't say,
so let's get that clear.
ABBY: Today you will be
voting on Maddie or Chloe.
May the best man win.
[theme music]
(SINGING) Get up!
Get on the floor!
My world is with my girls,
living on the dance floor.
[music playing]
Well, look at you, the first one in.
Wow. I love that your child and you
are the first ones in the door.
JILL: I don't like Kristie Rae.
She's been here just
a short period of time,
and she's already positioning
herself to be Abby's favorite.
ABBY: Congratulations, Asia.
It was your first time competing
with the Abby Lee Dance Company,
and you were the big winner.
[applause]
All right.
Last week, Cathy got
the only perfect score given.
It was horrible.
How come four strangers
that don't dance together
on a daily basis, that aren't
taught by the same teacher,
come together and tell the story
and connect with each other?
[music playing]
You're all together every single day.
I didn't see that connection.
I don't think some of you want to be here.
And I certainly don't think
any of you work hard enough.
The pyramid today--
first,
Mackenzie.
Mackenzie, you're injured.
You didn't dance. You stayed home.
MELISSA: Mackenzie hurt her foot.
She just has an overuse injury.
She just has to rest.
And next,
we have Brooke.
You are 15 years old.
We all make choices.
If you want to work hard,
you'll get better.
Next, Chloe.
Chloe, you were part of a trio.
That trio should have won.
[music playing]
It was second.
You fell out of the turns early.
You hit the floor before everybody else.
CHRISTI: I think the only way
that Chloe will ever make it to the top
of the pyramid again is if she
may be reincarnates as Anna Pavlova.
And next,
Kendall.
You were also part
of a trio that came in second.
And now,
Maddie.
Maddie, you were a part of the trio, too.
What went wrong?
MELISSA: Maddie's fourth
on the pyramid and Abby said,
you know, you were
part of the losing trio.
I thought they were fabulous.
Next,
Paige.
KELLY: I'm glad that Paige
is moving her way up the pyramid.
With me behaving myself
and not fighting with Abby,
it's paying off for my kids.
Paige, if I give you the responsibility
to be part of the group number,
then work harder.
And next
I have Nia.
Nia, you've been flying under the radar.
You're here because you're
like Switzerland.
HOLLY: Being second on
the pyramid is a big deal.
And I think Abby stole Nia's joy
by saying she got it
by flying under the radar.
I mean, that's defeating.
And next, on top of the pyramid, is Asia.
[music playing]
ABBY: Asia, you were our big winner.
This is a reflection of your score,
not your legs or your feet.
Those things all need a lot of attention.
Understood?
KRISTIE: This week, Asia brought it
and now we're on top of the pyramid.
Mackenzie, what's wrong?
ABBY: You feel dizzy?
All right.
Why don't you take a seat?
OK?
You want to keep that foot up.
Mackenzie has to stay off of her foot.
And you were her opposite,
and now you don't have an opposite.
So what do I do with Asia?
JILL: Asia and Mackenzie are so much
smaller than everybody else on this team,
that they both need to be in this group
number to offset one another.
They're both like two
cute little bookends.
ABBY: So you're going
to come into the group
and you're going to learn it.
But I don't know if you're in it or not.
KRISTIE: It's unfortunate
that Kenzie's hurt right now.
So I'm waiting patiently to see
if she's going to get a chance
to be in this group this week.
We're doing a patriotic number.
It's called "Free the People."
We have the conservatives
and the liberals.
Clearly, the Abby Lee Dance Company
is not a democracy.
Abby is a totalitarianist.
Now, this week we're
going to Philadelphia.
We are attending
Powerhouse Dance Competition.
After last weekend,
I need to put my best foot forward.
This whole fair thing,
with trying to spread it all around,
no.
Obviously, Asia,
you get another solo.
The name of your solo is "Ready for War."
So, Maddie, you have
another solo this week.
I think it's strange that Paige
is higher than Maddie on the pyramid,
but yet Maddie gets the solo
and Paige doesn't.
The name of your song is "I'm Trying."
Chloe, you will be doing a solo this week.
The name of your routine is
"Am I Here to Stay?"
CHRISTI: Maddie and Chloe
are competing against each other.
And this is the first time in months
these two are going to go head-to-head.
JILL: Maddie is the consistent winner,
but I know Chloe is really hungry to win.
With their rivalry, anything could happen.
ABBY: All right.
Moms, you're dismissed.
Girls, spread apart. Let's warm up.
Go ahead.
Come here, girls.
So why did Mackenzie start crying, though,
all of a sudden, in the middle of pyramid?
Did you notice the timing?
CHRISTI: Oh.
KELLY: Mackenzie started crying
as soon as Asia was announced
that she was at the top of the pyramid.
I think she's intimidated.
CHRISTI: It didn't even
register on my radar.
Melissa's daughters can't be out-danced.
So rather than have Asia
and Mackenzie go head-to-head,
Melissa pulls Kenzie from the dance.
Smart, Melissa.
ABBY: So this is loosely
based on the political system.
Every time we go to a dance competition
I hear people toss around the saying,
"Well, this is political.
Oh, well, she's going to win
because it's all politics,
that it's maybe me who you know."
Well, then I guess politics is life.
Because it is about who you know.
Hey, whatever it takes. Right?
[laughter]
- That's what this is about.
- That is true.
This is about politics--
CHRISTI: Of dance.
--of dance.
The ALDC is very political.
We are all campaigning all the time
to keep our daughters on top.
(SINGING) I can feel it--
ABBY: This week we're who a routine called
"Free the People."
It's a big patriotic number,
and I think it's important for kids today
to realize that they have a voice.
Asia, pay attention to what they're doing.
Yes? I just gave you that one step
to work on,
but you need to pay attention
to this group.
Originally, this routine had four girls
on the conservative side
and four girls on the liberal side.
And with that, I'm going to let you go.
But with Mackenzie out on injured reserve,
I don't know what to do with Asia.
So I put Asia to work on her solo.
Rosie the Riveter. Say that.
Rosie the Riveter.
Do you know who that is?
Yeah. She's going to be Rosie the Riveter.
Rosa what?
Rosie the Riveter.
You know, the girl from war war ads.
So you need to be strong.
Give me the arm.
Woo! Look at that.
Asia is doing a hot, sassy, jazz routine
it's called "Ready for War,"
and it's based on the character
Rosie the Riveter.
[music playing]
Five, six,
seven, eight.
Just keep it--
head and head and head and head.
Yes. I think Asia,
she could have been Rosie the Riveter.
She is one tough cookie.
All right, you're finished.
I'm going to let you go, Rosie.
Send in your co-worker.
OK, Chloe.
Chloe, the name
of this is "Am I Here to Stay?"
I mean, really, are you here to stay?
Are you going to come out
an amazing dancer?
Time will tell.
Chloe is holding a national title.
She needs to dig down deep to beat Maddie.
[music playing]
(MUSIC PLAYING) Every time
I think about the day you left me here,
I feel so cold inside.
CHRISTI: Chloe is the underdog.
Abby plays favorites,
and Chloe is certainly not one of them.
OK, Chloe, that's all we're going to do.
And, like, let that really hang.
And then you can get straight again.
Nice. Better.
All right. Chloe, that's it.
We have to wrap it up.
I'll see you tomorrow.
All right, good night.
[music playing]
All right, Maddie.
Maddie has a solo titled "I'm Trying."
She is trying to be
the overall first place high score.
Chloe is holding a national title.
That's all Maddie wants.
So is Chloe and Maddie compared a lot?
Is that how it works?
Last year it was, yes.
JILL: They're her stars.
They score the highest.
CHRISTI: Abby doesn't give Chloe
a whole lot of credit any longer.
Why do you think that is?
Because Abby hates me.
But, see, I think she gives Chloe
a ton of opportunities.
I swear, I do.
HOLLY: Abby's making it clear
that the pressure's on Chloe
to beat Maddie this week.
Clearly, she's not on the
same level plane field
because Christi's not Melissa.
Now you realize you're up against Chloe.
JILL: At this point, it's anybody's game.
And nothing is scarier than
a dance mom under pressure.
ABBY: Remember, sometimes
people play dirty when they're
talking about politics.
[music playing]
How's your foot?
It's OK.
MELISSA: Ugh.
There's stuff all over the floor there.
Here, honey.
You have to do your homework, Mad.
No. I don't want to.
I know, honey, but--
you're going to go to dance, but you
have to have your homework finished first.
I know. But can't we just got to, like,
dance early and I'll do that later?
You could do it on the way.
I'm thinking of homeschooling
Maddie and Mackenzie
because they can do a lot more.
They can dance more.
They can take voice and piano.
And, you know, kids have more
time to-- for themselves.
I have Tracy coming over
to talk to you guys.
You know, if we do the homeschooling,
then you guys can dance more, you know,
and really do what you want to do.
- OK?
- OK.
I really want to homeschool,
even though my mom says
that school comes before dance.
I say that dance comes before school.
[doorbell ringing]
It's Tracy.
MACKENZIE: [laughs]
MELISSA: Sh.
- Hi, Trace!
TRACY: Hi.
- How are you?
TRACY: Good.
How are you?
- Come on in.
- Thank you.
- Come on.
I've been doing a lot of
research about homeschooling.
I've spoken to a few tutors
that would actually teach my girls.
And we're just going to see
what happens at this point.
I was explaining to the girls
that I spoke to you,
you know, about homeschooling them.
And I explained to them that they
have to go to school every day,
you know, and that's the law.
Yeah. With homeschooling,
you do everything
that you would do in school--
all the same subjects, everything.
It's about four to five hours a day,
so you have extra time
to do more things, like dance.
They both want to do it.
You know, Mackenzie wants to--
she wants to really step
it up with her dancing.
But I'll miss my school friends.
I know. You have your best friend there,
huh?
MACKENZIE: I want to be homeschooled,
but I'll miss my friends.
TRACY: I suggest maybe me and you going
to a meeting with one of the counselors.
MELISSA: This sounds good,
so we're going to move forward.
OK, girls, we got to go get ready
for dance.
Thank Tracy for coming.
Thank you.
You're welcome, girls.
[music playing]
Well, I'm excited for your solo.
It's been a really long,
rough road for Chloe.
Because Abby has said that she
no longer is at Maddie's level,
and that she can't keep up,
and she's regressed.
So I'm really happy to see Chloe
given the opportunity to prove
that none of that is true.
Come on, girls!
Let's go, let's go, let's go.
You should be ready!
The routine is a big hot mess right now.
But once I get Asia in this number,
I think it's going to come together.
We're going to start
the dance where we left off.
I figured out what I'm
going to do with you, Asia.
I don't like to throw kids
out in the end of the numbers,
but I think this will be inspirational.
I think the audience will love it.
And I am going to have you come running
onto the stage with the American flag.
I want to use Asia
in this patriotic number
because she's a little firecracker.
So I decided to let Asia carry the flag.
Now, this is very important.
A flag it's never supposed
to touch the ground.
You need to be careful
that it never touches the ground.
I met with a tutor today, you know,
just asking questions about homeschooling.
JILL: Oh, you did?
MELISSA: Mm-hmm.
JILL: What's your next step?
MELISSA: I don't know if I'm doing it yet.
JILL: You find a tutor--
I still don't know if I'm doing it yet.
Do you want them to get more dance class?
Totally.
KELLY: I think the only reason
Melissa's pulling her kids out of school
is to get them ahead in the dance world.
And that's a crock of [bleep].
I'm definitely going to do it next year.
I mean, it's a definite for next year,
no question.
Maddie and Mackenzie want to homeschool.
They want more time.
They can dance more.
They'll be able to sleep
another hour in the morning.
What do you want out of this experience
that the school can't provide you?
Mackenzie's going to take piano.
Like-- like, it'll be fun for her to take
a piano class. You know?
Like, I might take piano.
I know Melissa will do anything
to make sure that her
daughters are the best dancers.
But taking your kids out of school
is really serious,
and I'm not sure that Melissa is
doing it for the right reasons.
School is not just about busy work.
It's about can you think.
Can you be a citizen of the world
and think for yourself?
I just really agree with Holly.
I really do.
Isn't our role as a parent to make sure
our children grow up educated?
The only thing Maddie's
going to know is a tendu!
These are hard questions because your child
gets one chance at education.
Run again for me. Run.
(SINGING) Something's coming.
I can feel it.
- Is that her part?
- [laughs]
She runs across the back?
Come on. Chase her!
That looks really bad.
Don't you think?
Well, I just think she's
too short to hold the flag.
Now run. Now do your grand jeté,
then keep going.
[laughter]
Asia just runs through with the flag.
Like, this-- is this the Olympics
and did you just win the marathon?
I think this makes Asia look
like she can't do anything.
In the group dance, Asia's role is little.
But I don't think it's demeaning her
as a dancer.
People know how my child dances,
so I'm not going to get all feathers
ruffled over this flag.
But I remember a flag dance--
Do you really think everyone
who goes to dance competitions
know your-- how your child dances?
I think enough people--
HOLLY: Really?
--that are important know
how my daughter dances.
Yeah.
Asia might be a big deal on the internet,
but so was a dog who can bark his ABCs.
I never heard of Asia before
she walked through this door.
I just think that's a really
big thing to say.
The competitions that we do
in other states are larger.
I'm just mainly stating a fact that the
women up here did not know who Asia was.
There's nothing to disagree about.
I didn't even know who Nia was.
But I wouldn't expect you to.
All of the moms have worked really hard to
get our girls where they are in this team.
So to have Kristie Ray waltz in
and act like she's a star--
it's pretty obnoxious, to say the least.
I'm not afraid to say
anything at any time.
I don't care what you say
and what you don't say.
So let's get that clear.
Sometimes we have nothing interesting
or intelligent to say.
You should just be quiet.
And I won't be quiet because I always
do have something interesting
and intelligent to say.
I disagree on that one.
We can agree to disagree on that.
[music playing]
ABBY: Eight, seven,
six, five, four, three--
I only have two days
with this number on stage.
I need to make sure everything is perfect,
including the costumes.
My vision is patriotic--
an assortment of red, white, and blue.
So I figured the moms to do it.
There is no costumes.
[chuckles]
Did anyone go home and do any
of the costume with the flag
or do anything with the flag?
CHRISTI: No. I did not.
Abby wants us to make a costume
this week out of a flag.
But I thought it was against
the rules to cut a flag.
I think that that's, like, unpatriotic.
My God, like, people die for that freedom
that that flag represents.
Absolutely.
CHRISTI: And for us to be like,
"Cover your booty with it"--
There are some things you just do not do.
And tampering-- destroying the
American flag is one of them.
You should not use it as a costume.
[laughs]
[music playing]
ABBY: In the history
of the Abby Lee Dance Company,
there has always been more
than one top dancer.
And now there's Maddie and Chloe.
And they're amazing because they
have each other to compete with.
That's where you let that arm
get caught up over your head.
If their leg is this high,
you want yours to be higher.
If they could jump as high,
you want to jump higher.
Every child gets better because the girl
standing next to her is getting better.
Chloe and Maddie going
head-to-head this week is huge.
Their rivalry has been going on for years,
where they back and forth in first place.
Chloe is just as talented as Maddie,
but she's out of practice.
And I'm happy that Chloe
finally is going to get a chance
to show that she's
the reigning National Champ.
I think that's it.
Maddie, why don't you get a drink?
Chloe, grab a drink.
Asia, go right now.
[drum beating]
Asia is quite impressive.
She has so much electricity
when she dances.
I think Mackenzie should sit
and watch Asia.
Hey, she's sitting on her but getting
worse and Asia's on stage getting better.
Very good!
[applause]
Melissa's made it very clear
to all the moms
she's not the least bit threatened
by Asia or Kristie.
I'm going to go ask
Abby about the costumes.
But if I was Melissa,
I would feel a little threatened.
So what's happening with the foot?
What do you think?
She really wants to dance.
I mean, Asia comes in from out of town,
boom.
She comes in right when
Mackenzie's injured.
Asia and Mackenzie both
have great qualities,
and they also both have a lot of flaws.
But if Mackenzie keeps sitting
and Asia keeps dancing,
Asia's going to get better.
You know, she doesn't want to let
Asia waltz into here from 3,000 miles away
and pass her up and take her spot.
[music playing]
Ready? Let's go.
Paige, give her the flag back
so she can do it.
When you put it over her,
it needs to be vertical.
Because Paige can't adapt
quickly to that change.
She wouldn't know how to just
twist it around 90 degrees.
Asia and Paige both
have to work with the flag.
I mean, Asia runs around with it,
and Paige has to hold
it up the correct way.
So they both have to work
together to make this work.
[music playing]
(SINGING) Seeds of anger--
The group routine "Free the People"
is very inspirational, patriotic.
And you just want to stand up
when that flag comes out.
(SINGING) We all want the same thing.
ABBY: Chase her! Go!
Chase her! Keep running!
Kendall, you're chasing her!
What? What? What did she do?
ABBY: Kendall, when you chase someone,
should you be in front of them
or behind them?
When Kendall and Chloe and Maddie
all ran to the middle
and they all got balled up,
but she yelled at Kendall.
ABBY: OK. Kendall, meet Asia.
You're going to chase
her around this room.
When you get up, you go behind her.
You fall in line behind her.
KENDALL: I know, but she was still
doing her grand jeté when we rolled up.
ABBY: I expect you to go into
another room or the den
and start working on that number.
Every step of it, go.
I work my butt off
to make sure Abby has no reason
to yell at me or my daughter.
But she does anyway.
All right.
I just wanted to check on you.
Abby says dance is political.
Well, I'm the one that walked
her dog and bought her gifts.
And she's still featuring
Maddie, Chloe, and Asia,
and yelling at Kendall.
Excuse me.
- Yes?
- I know you're busy.
We have something that we need to discuss.
ABBY: I don't have anything to discuss.
- Well, I-- listen. I'm need to find out--
But why is your kid crying?
Every-- everbody else--
- Because you don't scream at--
- Everybody else gets yelled at.
- She's a baby.
- --any other kid like you scream at her.
Oh-- you say one thing to that kid
and, "Boo, hoo, hoo, hoo, hoo,
"she's crying to her mother."
You know what, Kendall?
If you want to be the baby of the team,
that's fine.
Go. There's the door, right there.
JILL: Abby, I wish it were that easy.
ABBY: I understand that, but--
And if that's really what you want,
then we will.
That's-- that's not what I want.
JILL: I didn't think
that's what you wanted.
ABBY: But I don't get what
the crying, boo-hoo little--
I don't either.
[makes chirping sound]
The other moms can't--
Your kid is a brat--
Are you kidding me?
ABBY: Is crying, she's crying one--
There are brats in there,
and Kendall is not one of them,
and you know it!
[music playing]
ABBY: We're at Powerhouse Dance
Competition in Philadelphia.
And I am really worried.
The competition is tough.
They're going to have to battle
their way to the top.
Ooh, this is neat!
This is like Dungeons and Dragons.
Jill's right. We're all in the dungeon,
and Abby is the dragon.
ABBY: I want you girls to be strong.
People should be on
their feet cheering when
they see that flag come out.
Save your tears for the pillow.
JILL: Asia was crying
in the dressing room the other night.
Not because I yelled at her.
Yeah, because you never yell at her.
[laughs]
I know that Asia was
crying in the dressing room.
I mean, it's-- it's
really not my business,
but I wanted Abby to know.
ABBY: Jill, I can't believe you
were tattletaling on a 7-year-old.
Oh, I didn't tattletale.
I wanted her mom to explain.
ABBY: I can't believe Jill, a grown woman,
is tattletaling on a 7-year-old.
Jill, we all know who
the crybaby on the team is.
Yeah, well, you--
you keep reminding everybody.
ABBY: All right. Are we ready for our
Miss USA fashion show?
[music playing] Yankee Doodle.
- Woo!
- Work the runway.
Yankee Doodle.
Cute. Next.
Why don't you come
right in front of that one?
MELISSA: Look at Paige. [laughs]
I feel much better with the moms
making the costumes
out of handkerchiefs and fabric
rather than cutting up a flag.
I just feel like that
was totally against the rules.
MELISSA: She's such a teenager.
HOLLY: I am really proud of us.
The costumes are sharp,
and no flags were harmed.
Betsy Ross!
Cute!
I'm worried about Paige.
I'm worried about her making sure
that flag is used correctly.
But I'm also a little concerned with Asia
stretching that flag over Paige.
No. No. No.
OK. You're not getting low enough
and you're not grabbing it in front,
like, here.
Right hand on blue.
Do it again.
No. No. No. No. No. No. Flip it over.
These girls better do the group dance
perfect or we're screwed.
Line up, soldiers!
KELLY: If Abby thought that
the main part of the dance
was Paige holding the flag up correctly,
then she should've rehearsed
it a lot more than 30 seconds
before they went on stage.
Remember, this routine loses,
they're blaming you.
KRISTIE: Anything could go wrong.
But as far as Asia handling the flag,
I think she can pull it off.
[music playing]
ANNOUNCER: Entry number 74,
Junior Small Group Division.
Here they are with "Free the People."
[cheering and applause]
[music playing]
(SINGING) Something's coming.
I can feel it.
Through the darkness we can't stop it.
Will I live to see another day?
Will I live to see the sunrise?
What we're doing here is right.
And in our hands, a burning spear.
Our hearts, on fire.
We feel no fear.
And I will shield us all
around from sky to ground.
Our breathing is freedom.
[cheering and applause]
ANNOUNCER: That was entry
number 74, "Free the People."
So we know that Paige
held the flag up wrong.
But knowing that Asia is
the new kid on the team,
I'm hoping that the mothers don't target
her to blame for this flag.
Asia puts the flag on
Paige's back, upside down.
Like, it was Asia's fault.
[cheering]
Come on. Let's go.
Let's go. Let's go.
I told Paige, who is 12 years old,
10 times how to hold the flag.
Were you taught what to
do in class, in rehearsal?
Did we go over it?
And the one most.
Important thing was right hand
on the blue section.
Well, but, she hung it that way
because if you looked at her
when she was pulling it out,
she was holding it by the stripes.
So she just held it the other way.
She learned what to do.
And she knew that she needed to get
those blue stars in her
right hand to pull it up.
This week we're performing
a political number.
And getting to vote is a big deal,
so I thought why not have
the kids judge each other?
All right, girls, we're going
to do something a little different.
Today everybody who will be sitting
in the audience,
you will be voting on Maddie or Chloe.
Here's another one of Abby's
twisted lessons--
the politics of dance.
I get that you have to vote and everybody
gets a vote and someone
wins and someone loses.
But it doesn't make it any easier
to vote against your friends.
ABBY: So you get to judge
on the performance.
It's up to you to go in there
and make a choice.
[music playing]
Today you get to judge on the performance.
You will be voting on Maddie or Chloe.
Really, Abby?
You're going to have
the moms and the girls
silent vote for who danced better,
Chloe or Maddie?
What are you hoping to gain out of that?
I want you to see that when you're
judging many different
things come into play.
I am trying to get these
kids motivated to be more
passionate about their dancing.
What better way than sitting
in the audience and judging?
Come on, come on, let's go.
I think healthy competition between them
makes them both stronger,
better performers.
KRISTIE: I think Abby was trying
to challenge them to out-dance
each other on stage.
I don't think there's
anything wrong with it.
I've always instilled in Asia
to brush off the bad comments
and prove them wrong on stage.
ANNOUNCER: Taking the stage
right now is entry number 15.
Here is Asia with "Ready for War."
[cheering and applause]
[music playing]
(SINGING) Ponytail-- check.
Earrings off-- check.
You see, I'm ready--
ready for war.
Don't you forget it 'cause
I'm coming for more.
If you thought that I was done,
that I was through,
you're mistaken.
I have so much more.
You see, I'm ready--
ready for war.
[cheering and applause]
MELISSA: I think Asia
looked good on stage.
But it's hard to watch
because I feel bad for Mackenzie.
It's breaking her heart.
Good job!
I did it.
OK. All right.
Take one, pass them down.
HOLLY: Yes. Oh, you could borrow one.
KRISTIE: Thank you.
- Does everyone have a ballot?
HOLLY: I have one.
I wonder why Abby's doing that voting
thing for Maddie and I.
Maybe because you guys haven't competed
against each other in a while.
They want to see
who's been working harder.
The dance competition world
is a much bigger picture.
Kids don't always understand.
I want to see if this vote helps them
to see what the judges are seeing.
Just because somebody is your friend
doesn't mean that they're going
to show favoritism towards you.
ANNOUNCER: Taking the stage
right now, entry number 29.
Here's Chloe with "Am I Here to Stay?"
I really hope she just doesn't
let the pressure get to her
and she doesn't psych herself out.
Because her solo is beautiful,
and I really just want her
to do well with it.
GIRLS: Go, Chloe!
[music playing]
(SINGING) Can't explain
the vision in my dreams.
I just don't know what it mean.
Every time I think about
the day you left me here,
I feel so cold inside.
It's not coming back 'cause
you're not coming back.
You're gone,
but this pain is here to stay.
But this pain is here to stay.
[cheering and applause]
CHRISTI: Considering all this
pressure on Chloe this week.
I thought she was beautiful
and elegant on stage.
I'm really proud of Chloe.
I think it was good enough to beat Maddie.
ANNOUNCER: Taking the stage right now
we've got entry number 30.
Here's Maddie with "I'm Trying."
[cheering and applause]
[music playing]
(SINGING) Tears rolling down from my eyes,
and I forget why I'm crying.
The need to make a change,
pick up the pieces
and rearrange--
oh, and I'm trying
to see every star,
shut out the storm that hit my life.
Oh, I'm trying.
[cheering and applause]
CHRISTI: I think when people
are voting, they need to remember
that these girls are
working at a disadvantage
unless they're Maddie.
I think Chloe's better.
But who am I to judge?
I personally would have really
liked to see Mackenzie and Asia
go head-to-head.
MELISSA: They will.
I don't know.
I think that you're going to make sure
that doesn't happen, Melissa.
Woo-hoo!
KELLY: When we're done with this voting,
can we change the front of
that to say Suggestion Box?
Because I got a few suggestions.
CHRISTI: Oh, good idea!
[cheering]
Good job, everybody.
ABBY: Good, good, good, good, good.
Wonderful. Wonderful. Wonderful. Yay!
KELLY: Oh, for god's sakes.
HOLLY: Kids vote all the time in schools,
whether it's for student council
or team captains.
But it doesn't make it easy.
Maddie, Chloe, you don't get to vote.
OK.
Come on and put your vote in the box.
JILL: Put your ballots--
ABBY: There you go. OK.
Thank you.
We're going to keep these safe and sound
and we're going to count
these votes later.
Everybody back off.
Let's go for awards. Smile.
Let's go.
[music playing]
You guys ready for awards?
[cheering and applause]
We cast our ballots.
Now it's time to see who the judges
selected as their winner.
In the Junior Small Group Division--
ABBY: I was sweating it
out there in the end.
Were the judges looking for
straight legs and pointed feet?
Were they looking for a story?
Who knows.
It's in the hands of the judges now.
ANNOUNCER: In third place,
entry number 72, "Be Mine."
[cheering and applause]
KELLY: Abby already blamed
Paige for the whole flag thing.
I just hope that we can go
out there and we can win.
Second place, entry number 74,
"Free the People."
[applause]
ABBY: We were only second.
And we all know how I feel about second.
In the Petite Solo Division--
[applause]
--third place, entry number 12,
"Get Up Off of That Thing."
[cheering and applause]
Second place is entry number 13,
"Supercalifragilistic."
[applause]
And first place,
entry number 15, "Ready for War."
[cheering and applause]
ANNOUNCER: And name your studio.
Abby Lee Dance Company.
ANNOUNCER: Give her a round of applause.
KRISTIE: I'm so excited Asia pulled it off
and won first place.
If you don't know Asia, Holly, now you do.
In the Junior Solo Division,
third place, entry number 25,
"Stairway to Heaven."
[cheering and applause]
CHRISTI: I'm sitting there,
and I'm a ball of nerves and tension.
But, newsflash--
Chloe has beat Maddie before.
It's not like this far fetched thing
to think that she could beat her,
because she has.
It's just too much pressure.
Back to the old, you know,
Chloe versus Maddie.
And I really hope Maddie wins first.
Second place is entry number 29,
"Am I Here to Stay?"
[applause]
CHRISTI: I'm shocked
that Chloe got second.
And, to be honest, I haven't seen Chloe
dance this well in a long time.
She was amazing in the dance.
ANNOUNCER: In first place,
entry number 30, "I'm Trying."
MELISSA: Yeah, Maddie!
ABBY: Maddie was close to perfection.
Her technique was flawless,
and the emotional execution
is always heartfelt.
That's why Maddie wins.
Woo-hoo!
- And you--
- Maddie, Abby Lee Dance Company.
[cheering and applause]
This is a toss up.
Maddie and Chloe are both
doing things really, really well.
And I think both of them want this bad.
They're both dancing great.
[music playing]
All right.
We're going to count the ballots.
Maddie,
Chloe,
and Paige.
[laughs]
Was that you? You wrote it?
You're just making a mockery of this?
CHRISTI: Kelly could vote
for whomever she wants.
However, she voted against my daughter,
and it did hurt my feelings.
All right.
Maddie, Chloe, Maddie.
HOLLY: On one hand,
I wanted to vote for Maddie
because of her technique.
On the other hand, I wanted
to vote for Chloe because she did
the best with what she had.
Maddie, Maddie, Chloe, Maddie, Maddie.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
One, two, three.
Maddie wins.
I was shocked that more of the kids
did not vote for Chloe.
Now, that's what your teammates thought.
MELISSA: Christi just wanted
this victory for Chloe,
and I don't blame her.
I'm sad for Chloe, absolutely.
ABBY: Take that sadness and
put it into your dancing.
Use more emotion.
This has been a long day,
and one thing is for sure.
My mom and dad taught me
to never discuss religion or politics.
HOLLY: Although awkward,
I think the voting experience
was a good one for the girls.
Because this is not about
friendship or popularity.
It's about who can get
the job done for the team.
Now, Abby, next time two of your kids
go head-to-head in a category,
you going to have everybody vote?
Because you've never done this before
and it's just clearly a way to make
Chloe feel bad about herself.
It's a competitive world, whether it be
politics or dance or school.
But you have a lot of other
kids who go and do stuff
but you don't call them out on it!
You only pick on mine
Oh, you're welcome.
ABBY (VOICEOVER): Next on "Dance Moms"--
I have been officially
invited to be on "The View."
[cheering and applause]
What if you get hurt again
and you're not good for New York City?
Like, right now,
Asia's rehearsing your spot.
KRISTIE: It's about this whole charade.
Don't let her rehearse.
- What charade?
KRISTIE: The charade about the foot.
What the [bleep] is wrong with the foot?
CHRISTI: I want to know where
the miracle came from because--
Why don't you call the
[bleep] doctor and ask him?
Don't take it out on me that Abby
pulled your kid from a dance.
ABBY: Maddie, if they don't do well,
I'm going to need a new assistant.